README.md, before:

<img width="1009" alt="Universal 3D Shortcuts" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/112505578/207167305-13273872-59d7-4095-b2d2-735ed4c38b28.png">

Universal 3D Shortcuts is a collection of keyboard shortcuts, scripts, and plugins designed to unify your experience with 3D programs. With over 200-300 modified/considered keyboard shortcuts **per program**, Universal 3D Shortcuts aims to unify the navigation and hotkeys of various 3D programs, allowing you to focus on your work without the distraction of switching between different interfaces. Whenever possible, the original hotkeys are preserved to minimize disruption to your workflow. 


>⚡️Currently supported: Blender, Maya, Cinema 4D

<p align="center">
<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/112505578/207413410-fce9709a-475e-4a31-9e4d-874895df218a.gif">
</p>


## Command Reference & Customization

The document containing the list of keyboard shortcuts can be used as a command reference to find the same command across different 3D programs. Additionally, if you prefer to customize your own navigation or keyboard shortcuts, you can easily change them in each program to better suit your workflow.

<p align="center">
<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/112505578/207441062-69beead0-ad7b-4a54-80a5-f05814fd57b5.gif" width= "100%">
</p>

## Download

* :floppy_disk: [Latest Version](https://github.com/AtixCG/Universal-3D-Shortcuts/releases/latest)
* :page_facing_up:	[Commands & Shortcuts List](https://github.com/AtixCG/Universal-3D-Shortcuts/blob/main/Universal%203D%20Shortcuts.pdf)


## Possible Issues

This project was made and tested by me alone, so mistakes are possible. The most complex and problematic integration of hotkeys was in Blender, so the probability of errors there is the highest. 

The keyboard shortcuts are tested on the following program versions:
* Maya 2023.2
* Cinema 4D 2023
* Blender 3.4 (probably won't work on older versions)


## Installation

### Maya
1. Copy files in downloaded "Marking Menus" folder and paste them to `Documents\maya\YOUR MAYA VERSION\prefs\markingMenus`
2. In Maya go to: Windows -> Settings/Preferences -> Hotkey Editor
3. Click on ![setting](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/112505578/207167397-4e52a0c5-6911-41f6-9bcc-382b6932c21c.png)
 icon and then "Import"
4. Select "Universal.mhk" in downloaded folder

### Cinema 4D
1. Copy files in downloaded "Scripts" folder and paste them to: 
`%AppData%\Maxon\YOUR CINEMA 4D VERSION\library\scripts`
2. (Optional) Install [Drop to Floor](https://www.alphapixel.net/drop-to-floor/) by Alpha Pixel
3. In Cinema4D go to: Windows -> Command Manager -> File -> Load
4. Select "Universal.res" in downloaded folder

### Blender (With Addons)
In this case, the missing functionality of Blender is augmented with the help of the third-party addons. 

1. Copy the files in the "With Addons" folder and paste them to: 
`%USERPROFILE%\AppData\Roaming\Blender Foundation\Blender\YOUR BLENDER VERSION`

> :warning: **WARNING. This method will overwrite your Blender preferences. And restarting some addons may break shortcuts associated with the addon. You might want to create a backup before replacing files.**

### Blender (Without Addons)
In this case, no addons will be used for installation.

1. In Blender go to: Blender Preferences -> Keymap -> Import
2. Select "Universal_WO_Addons.py" in downloaded folder


## With Addons vs Without Addons
### With Addons
The version with addons contains the following addons:
* Align Tools (Built-In)
* Pie Menus (Built-In)
* [AutoDelete](https://blenderartists.org/t/auto-delete/678815/1) by Darcvizer 
* [Drop It](https://andreasaust.gumroad.com/l/drop_it) by AndreasAustPMX
* [MACHIN3tools](https://machin3.gumroad.com/l/MACHIN3tools) by machin3
* [MaterialUtilities](https://github.com/ChrisHinde/MaterialUtilities) by ChrisHinde 
* [Merge Tool](https://github.com/Stromberg90/Scripts/tree/master/Blender) by Stromberg90 
* Separate Objects by Me
* [Toggle Hide](https://github.com/K-410/blender-scripts/blob/master/2.8/toggle_hide.py) by K-410
* [X-Ray Selection](https://blenderartists.org/t/x-ray-selection-tools/1212316) Tools by Cirno 

> Note: If you are the developer of any of these add-ons and do not wish for them to be used, please reach out to me.
#### Updating Addons
You can update add-ons, but you may need to configure their corresponding keyboard shortcuts in order for them to function properly.

### Without Addons
**:x: The following commands and keyboard shortcuts are missing in the version without addons:**
Command|Shortcut
----|----
Assign New Material|Alt-A
Group|Ctrl-G
Ungroup|Shift-G
Drop It|Ctrl-Alt-Shift-Z
Assign Default Material|Ctrl-Alt-Shift-L
Set Pivot to Bottom|Ctrl-Shift-C
Mirror|Alt-Shift-M
Merge Tool|Ctrl-W
Sculpting menu (Sculpt Mode)|W

**:recycle:	These shortcuts hanged to built-in commands:**
Command|Shortcut
----|----
Select|D
Delete|X
Hide|H
Clean Up|Shift-Alt-D
Separate|Ctrl-Alt-Shift-S


## Development 
:heart: Appreciate any feedback and suggestions. Now I am looking for a way to make keyboard shortcuts available in a wider range of Blender versions and any help is welcome :sparkles:

Commit message:

Update mac support and fix bugs
Fix bug which may case crash while importing Universal_wo for blender on windows.

README.md, after:

<img width="1009" alt="Universal 3D Shortcuts" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/112505578/207167305-13273872-59d7-4095-b2d2-735ed4c38b28.png">

Universal 3D Shortcuts is a collection of keyboard shortcuts, scripts, and plugins designed to unify your experience with 3D programs. With over 200-300 modified/considered keyboard shortcuts **per program**, Universal 3D Shortcuts aims to unify the navigation and hotkeys of various 3D programs, allowing you to focus on your work without the distraction of switching between different interfaces. Whenever possible, the original hotkeys are preserved to minimize disruption to your workflow. 


>⚡️Currently supported: Blender, Maya, Cinema 4D

<p align="center">
<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/112505578/207413410-fce9709a-475e-4a31-9e4d-874895df218a.gif">
</p>


## Command Reference & Customization

The document containing the list of keyboard shortcuts can be used as a command reference to find the same command across different 3D programs. Additionally, if you prefer to customize your own navigation or keyboard shortcuts, you can easily change them in each program to better suit your workflow.

<p align="center">
<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/112505578/207441062-69beead0-ad7b-4a54-80a5-f05814fd57b5.gif" width= "100%">
</p>

## Download

* :floppy_disk: [Latest Version](https://github.com/AtixCG/Universal-3D-Shortcuts/releases/latest)
* :page_facing_up:	[Commands & Shortcuts List](https://github.com/AtixCG/Universal-3D-Shortcuts/blob/main/Universal%203D%20Shortcuts.pdf)


## Possible Issues

This project was made and tested by me alone, so mistakes are possible. The most complex and problematic integration of hotkeys was in Blender, so the probability of errors there is the highest. 

The keyboard shortcuts are tested on the following program versions:
* Maya 2023.2
* Cinema 4D 2023
* Blender 3.4 (probably won't work on older versions)


## Installation

### Maya
1. Copy files in downloaded "Marking Menus" folder and paste them to `Documents\maya\YOUR MAYA VERSION\prefs\markingMenus`
2. In Maya go to: Windows -> Settings/Preferences -> Hotkey Editor
3. Click on ![setting](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/112505578/207167397-4e52a0c5-6911-41f6-9bcc-382b6932c21c.png)
 icon and then "Import"
4. Select "Universal.mhk" in downloaded folder

### Cinema 4D
1. Copy files in downloaded "Scripts" folder and paste them to: 
`%AppData%\Maxon\YOUR CINEMA 4D VERSION\library\scripts`
2. (Optional) Install [Drop to Floor](https://www.alphapixel.net/drop-to-floor/) by Alpha Pixel
3. In Cinema4D go to: Windows -> Command Manager -> File -> Load
4. Select "Universal.res" in downloaded folder

### Blender (With Addons)
In this case, the missing functionality of Blender is augmented with the help of the third-party addons. 

1. Copy the files in the "With Addons" folder and paste them to: 
`%USERPROFILE%\AppData\Roaming\Blender Foundation\Blender\YOUR BLENDER VERSION`  
For mac users, paste the files to `~\Library\Application support\Blender\YOUR BLENDER VERSION`

> :warning: **WARNING. This method will overwrite your Blender preferences. And restarting some addons may break shortcuts associated with the addon. You might want to create a backup before replacing files.**

### Blender (Without Addons)
In this case, no addons will be used for installation.

1. In Blender go to: Blender Preferences -> Keymap -> Import
2. Select "Universal_WO_Addons.py" in downloaded folder

>  Note: **On Mac, you should import "mac_utilities.py" first.** Just ignore the errors while importing the "mac_utilities.py" file. Then import "Universal_WO_Addons.py".


## With Addons vs Without Addons
### With Addons
The version with addons contains the following addons:
* Align Tools (Built-In)
* Pie Menus (Built-In)
* [AutoDelete](https://blenderartists.org/t/auto-delete/678815/1) by Darcvizer 
* [Drop It](https://andreasaust.gumroad.com/l/drop_it) by AndreasAustPMX
* [MACHIN3tools](https://machin3.gumroad.com/l/MACHIN3tools) by machin3
* [MaterialUtilities](https://github.com/ChrisHinde/MaterialUtilities) by ChrisHinde 
* [Merge Tool](https://github.com/Stromberg90/Scripts/tree/master/Blender) by Stromberg90 
* Separate Objects by Me
* [Toggle Hide](https://github.com/K-410/blender-scripts/blob/master/2.8/toggle_hide.py) by K-410
* [X-Ray Selection](https://blenderartists.org/t/x-ray-selection-tools/1212316) Tools by Cirno 

> Note: If you are the developer of any of these add-ons and do not wish for them to be used, please reach out to me.
#### Updating Addons
You can update add-ons, but you may need to configure their corresponding keyboard shortcuts in order for them to function properly.

### Without Addons
**:x: The following commands and keyboard shortcuts are missing in the version without addons:**
Command|Shortcut
----|----
Assign New Material|Alt-A
Group|Ctrl-G
Ungroup|Shift-G
Drop It|Ctrl-Alt-Shift-Z
Assign Default Material|Ctrl-Alt-Shift-L
Set Pivot to Bottom|Ctrl-Shift-C
Mirror|Alt-Shift-M
Merge Tool|Ctrl-W
Sculpting menu (Sculpt Mode)|W

**:recycle:	These shortcuts hanged to built-in commands:**
Command|Shortcut
----|----
Select|D
Delete|X
Hide|H
Clean Up|Shift-Alt-D
Separate|Ctrl-Alt-Shift-S


## Development 
:heart: Appreciate any feedback and suggestions. Now I am looking for a way to make keyboard shortcuts available in a wider range of Blender versions and any help is welcome :sparkles:
